# InnerSource Patterns WG - Report for governance meeting 2020-10

**Q3/2020 | July - September** (unzutreffend deckt eigentlich alles letztem treffen ab)

## Mission - Briefly describe what your project actually does.

- Discuss community InnerSource practices and dynamics, collect and document agreed upon best practices of how to do InnerSource - in the form of patterns
- Continuously publish the most mature patterns as an ebook and website

## Project/Community Status and Health - Sum up the status and health of your project and community in a few sentences.

- This project is seeing more activity than ~1 year ago, with 10 new contributors, some of them repeatedly, some major contributions, lots of evolutionary improvements. Also new contributions from past contributors.
- Activity and trusted committer diversity is still too low to sustain the project in the long run on a high activity level. Low activity evolution is sustainable.

## Project Activity - Describe the overall activity in the project over the past quarter.

- New process proposal by @maxcapraro, discussion (@spier @mainec @newmexicokid @lenucksi) and successful adoption (initial, structured, validated, goal faster first contribution, see contributor handbook)
- Processing of existing content from wiki and existing PRs into publishable repo content, large scale cleanup, migration and fixing 
- Great work towards content rendering (e.g. website, PDFs) in progress @spier @dizquerdo (https://innersourcecommons.gitbook.io)
- Conference activity, more activity on Slack leading to new patterns 
- patterns office-hours concept try out, some success, dual time-zone meeting concept successfully in use in marketing wg

### Pattern-work

#### Entirely new & merged: 5

- RFCs #204 @tsadler1988 @spier @mainec 
- InnerSource Activity Score @michadelic SAP #189 @newmexicokid @spier
- InnerSource License #147
- Pattern Overview Mindmap: @feiwan2000 (very popular!) 
- Europace sponsored: Mechanics and tooling recommendations #124, #123 #121 @mainec @rrutledge @martinklewitz @newmexicokid @sjn

#### Entirely new & open: 2

- #166 concept-anchor @mishari
- #182 definition of OSS/ISS projects @chtompki

#### Existing PRs/Content merged: 3

- Maturity model #121 @mainec @dizquierdo
- Draft from Galway "Who is using my code" #112 @StingrayZA
- Reluctance to accept contributions #199 from GDoc via @spier from Klaas & others (see pattern)

#### Progress on existing PRs: 8

- #95 (almost done, @gruetter), #46 (#216, @gruetter) #120 #84 #78 #74 #71 #64 

### Technical contributions: ca. 8

- Content linting #168, #222, @spier, @nschonni
- rendering to Gitbook @217 @spier
- linkchecking #157 @spier #146 #145

### Cleanup, Fixing & Migration: a lot

- Fixing countless typos, broken links and inconsistent templates/documentation: @spier 
- Spelling, typos, examples #176, #175 @jpatrao
- Typos, small improvements @stingrayza, @michadelic @funzinator

Transparent Cross-Team Decision Making using RFCs 
Repository Activity Score
Stats: 
PRs closed: 23
PRs created: 19
Open PRs (end of quarter): 20
Open Issues (end of quarter): 27
trusted committers: 5 (active ~3)

## Plans of the Project

**Describe the current plans of the project. Include goals the project is working towards as well as any announcements that should be published through the marketing group.**

- Publish our first official ebook of the InnerSource patterns. Once we do that, let’s announce that through our Marketing WG.
- Process existing content from pull requests and Google group into our repository
- Evaluate ideas to further facilitate collection of pattern content (e.g. through automation), channel ongoing discussions into pattern-work and attract more contributors, e.g. by lowering the barriers of entry for them.
- Onboard further trusted committers
- Possibly review the current list of trusted committers. Some of them don’t seem to be active anymore (likely they receive a lot of github/email spam from us today).

## Last Committer Addition

**When was the last committer added to the project? A healthy project tends to add new committers regularly. The report should indicate the most recent date on which a committer was added.**

- 24th of April 2020: @lenucksi

## Committer Diversity

**Cover committer diversity in your project. A healthy project should survive the departure of any single contributor or employer of contributors. What are your steps to make sure that people from all regions on the globe can participate in your project without having to be awake at midnight their local time?**

- focus on asynchronous collab in the #innersource-patterns channel
- offering office hours on APAC and EU/Americas friendly timeslots
- Work towards automation of administration tasks, documentation of processes
- Have TCs in multiple time zones

Currently the project depends on very few individuals doing most of the work.

Not related to the question
Most contributions come from Europe right now. So we certainly need to do more work here to motivate many more committers to help us to sustain this project.

## Legal Issues & Other Needs

**Are there any project branding or naming issues, either in the project or externally? Any legal issues? Any infrastructure or strategic needs?**

- None currently, book illustrations might trigger IP compliance requirements.

## Any issues for the Board to act on?

- None
