# InnerSource Patterns WG - Report for Governance Meeting 2020-11

**Reporting Period:** October 10/2020 (since [previous report](2020-10.md))

**Important Note:** Some interesting activity in the Patterns WG in November 2020, especially related to categorizing patterns according to their phases in an InnerSource Program to improve discoverability. As this work happened outside of the reporting period it will be highlighted in the next report.

## Mission

*Briefly describe what your project actually does.*

- Discuss community InnerSource practices and dynamics, collect and document agreed upon best practices of how to do InnerSource - in the form of patterns
- Continuously publish the most mature patterns as an ebook and website

## Project/Community Status and Health

*Sum up the status and health of your project and community in a few sentences*

- 1 new contributor in the reporting period (@WillemJiang)
- Challenges:
	- PRs with minor changes stay open for extended periods. This prevents quick incremental quality improvements. This might also demotivate contributors, as giving them a sense of success would be a way to keep them engaged in the project. Examples: [#213](https://github.com/InnerSourceCommons/InnerSourcePatterns/pull/213), [#222](https://github.com/InnerSourceCommons/InnerSourcePatterns/pull/222), [#230](https://github.com/InnerSourceCommons/InnerSourcePatterns/pull/230), [#232](https://github.com/InnerSourceCommons/InnerSourcePatterns/pull/232) 
	- Also the longer a PR is open, the higher the chances that that PR will go stale i.e. the author does not have any time anymore to see thee PR through. Examples of said risk are [13 PRs](https://github.com/InnerSourceCommons/InnerSourcePatterns/pulls?q=is%3Apr+is%3Aopen+created%3A%3C2020) that have been created prior to 2020, many even in 2017. Bringing these PRs to a stage where they can either be discontinued (i.e. closed) or approved and merged has proven very difficult.
- Activity and trusted committer diversity is too low to sustain the project in the long run on a high activity level. (Low activity evolution is sustainable.)

## Project Activity

*Describe the overall activity in the project over the reporting period.*

- Continuing to work with the new Maturity levels (initial, structured, validated)
- Continuing work towards [content rendering](https://innersourcecommons.gitbook.io/innersource-patterns/v/book/) (e.g. website, initial PDFs) @spier
- Presentation pitch for upcoming APAC Summit: *Level up your InnerSource through Patterns* - @fwan2000, @spier
- Patterns office-hours concept try out, some success, dual time-zone meeting concept successfully in use in Marketing WG

### Pattern-work

* [Merged PRs](https://github.com/InnerSourceCommons/InnerSourcePatterns/pulls?q=is%3Apr+closed%3A2020-10-01..2020-10-31+is%3Amerged): 2
	* Pattern work: 1 (improvements to the [InnerSource Activity Score](https://github.com/InnerSourceCommons/InnerSourcePatterns/blob/master/patterns/2-structured/repository-activity-score.md))
	* Non-pattern work: 1
* [New PRs created](https://github.com/InnerSourceCommons/InnerSourcePatterns/pulls?q=is%3Apr+created%3A2020-10-01..2020-10-31): 2

## Plans of the Project

*Describe the current plans of the project. Include goals the project is working towards as well as any announcements that should be published through the marketing group.*

**Status: no changes/updates since last report**

- Publish our [first official ebook](https://innersourcecommons.gitbook.io/innersource-patterns/v/book/) of the InnerSource Patterns. Once we do that, let’s announce that through our Marketing WG.
- Process existing content from pull requests and Google group into our repository
- Evaluate ideas to further facilitate collection of pattern content (e.g. through automation), channel ongoing discussions into pattern-work and attract more contributors, e.g. by lowering the barriers of entry for them.
- Onboard further trusted committers
- Possibly review the current list of trusted committers. Some of them don’t seem to be active anymore (likely they receive a lot of github/email spam from us today).

## Last Committer Addition

*When was the last committer added to the project? A healthy project tends to add new committers regularly. The report should indicate the most recent date on which a committer was added.*

**Status: no changes/updates since last report**

- 24th of April 2020: @lenucksi

## Committer Diversity

*Cover committer diversity in your project. A healthy project should survive the departure of any single contributor or employer of contributors. What are your steps to make sure that people from all regions on the globe can participate in your project without having to be awake at midnight their local time?*

**Status: no changes/updates since last report**

- Focus on asynchronous collaboration in the #innersource-patterns channel
- Offering of office hours on APAC and EU/Americas friendly timeslots
- Work towards automation of administration tasks, documentation of processes
- Have TCs in multiple time zones

## Legal Issues & Other Needs

*Are there any project branding or naming issues, either in the project or externally? Any legal issues? Any infrastructure or strategic needs?*

**Status: no changes/updates since last report**

- None currently, book illustrations will trigger IP compliance requirements.
- Suggestions welcome on how to attract more contributors.

## Any issues for the Board to act on?

- None
