# InnerSource Patterns WG - Report for Board Meeting 2022-05

## Reporting Period

Feb 1st, 2022 - April 30st, 2022

## Mission

- Discuss community InnerSource practices and dynamics, collect and document agreed upon best practices of how to do InnerSource - in the form of patterns
- Publish the most mature patterns at [patterns.innersourcecommons.org](https://patterns.innersourcecommons.org/)

## Overview

- Rob Tuley joined as Trusted Committer - yay! (see [innersource.flutter.com](https://innersource.flutter.com) for some of his work)
- ~8.200 (last ~6500) page views of our [patterns book](https://patterns.innersourcecommons.org/) / ~ 91 (last 72) per day
- no new patterns this quarter :(
- adding more orgs to the Known Instances of existing patterns
- some discussions about patterns are happening in #innersource-patterns
- patterns get mentioned frequently in Community Calls
- picking a **Pattern of the Month** for our Marketing Newsletters is a struggle - luckily the Marketing WG just does this themselves most of the time :). Ongoing conversations with them about how we can do marketing for the Patterns
- we need more Trusted Committers
- no office hours in EU/Americas time slots

## Pattern Work

- **Known Instances Collection**: low-effort activity for contributors to strengthen our patterns. in the easiest case just listing the org name under the Known Instances section of a pattern. Examples:
    - 30 Day Warranty - GitHub and Microsoft
    - InnerSource Portal - Banco Santander
    - Document your Guiding Principles - GitHub
- **Patterns in the Wild**: Trying out an approach to extract patterns from information that is available online.
    - We create an issue for each org that has published something online about their InnerSource adoption - see [examples](https://github.com/InnerSourceCommons/InnerSourcePatterns/issues?q=is%3Aissue+label%3Apatterns-in-the-wild).
    - We contact the org to talk to them about their InnerSource experiences and which patterns could be extracted. We keep this conversation in the public on the GitHub issue.
    - This has lead to some great conversations already that didn't happen in Slack organically. See [DAZN example](https://github.com/InnerSourceCommons/InnerSourcePatterns/issues/392).
- new patterns (merged PRs): none
- new pattern ideas (opened issues): none
    - also none of the pattern ideas from the previous quarter made into PRs, which is a bummer.
- references:
    - [merged PRs](https://github.com/InnerSourceCommons/InnerSourcePatterns/pulls?q=is%3Apr+closed%3A2022-02-01..2022-04-30+is%3Amerged)
    - [opened issues](https://github.com/InnerSourceCommons/InnerSourcePatterns/issues?q=is%3Aissue+created%3A2021-11-01..2022-01-31+is%3Aopen)

## Future Goals

- reduce the time that PRs stay in review
- reduce the time it takes from posting a pattern idea to opening a first PR (lower the barrier for entry)
- actively reaching out to orgs that already talk about their InnerSource work publicly. Help them to contribute their patterns. => see **Patterns in the Wild** above
- hardening the patterns further, by finding 3 known instances for some of the patterns in the book (improves quality and increases trustworthiness of the patterns) => see **Known Instances Collection** above
- level-up more patterns from the GitHub repo to the book. The patterns in the book seem to get more exposure to interested readers.
- trying out other ways to make the patterns easier to discover (e.g. different pattern categories; index pages at the end of the book or similar)
- try out other forms of engagement around patterns (office hours, "pattern of the month", etc)

## Last Committer Addition

*When was the last committer added to the project? A healthy project tends to add new committers regularly. The report should indicate the most recent date on which a committer was added.*

* [@robtuley](https://github.com/robtuley) (added 2022-02-15)
* [@spier](https://github.com/spier) (added 2020-12-11)
* [@lenucksi](https://github.com/lenucksi) (added 2020-04-24)

## Committer Diversity

*Cover committer diversity in your project. A healthy project should survive the departure of any single contributor or employer of contributors. What are your steps to make sure that people from all regions on the globe can participate in your project without having to be awake at midnight their local time?*

- all in the EU at the moment
